@SUMMARY
INT == 
POS == 
NEG == 
@PAPERS
PMID== 9058336
TI  == bacterial adherence to guided tissue regeneration barrier membranes exposed to the oral environment.
AB  == microbial colonization of barrier materials used in guided tissue regeneration (gtr) is known to adversely affect treatment outcomes. the purpose of this study  was to compare the rate at which 11 commonly-occurring oral bacteria species colonize three different barrier materials (collagen, expanded polytetrafluoroethylene, and polylactic acid). the study group consisted of 10 systemically healthy individuals with no history of periodontal disease and absence of antimicrobial therapy within the previous 3 months. in each patient, 4 teeth per quadrant (p1, p2, m1, m2) were selected and 3 teeth were randomly assigned as test teeth while the remaining tooth acted as a control site (i.e., natural colonization of the tooth surface). these teeth were then randomly assigned to receive one of the three barrier types (i.e., each patient received 4 barriers of each type, 1 per quadrant). a 2 x 5 mm piece of barrier material was  positioned over the oral surface of the buccal marginal gingiva and secured with  an external sling suture. with oral hygiene procedures suspended, one barrier of  each type was collected at 1, 3, 7, and 14 days. slot immunoblot assay demonstrated that all species types (a. actinomycetemcomitans, a. viscosus, b. melaninogenicus, f. nucleatum, p. gingivalis, p. intermedia, s. mutans, s. sanguis, selenomonas sputigena, t. denticola, and t. vincentii) were present. semi-quantitative scoring (scale 0 to 3) of slot blot results and analysis by chi-square ratio and pearson correlation test indicated that while total bacteria adherence increased over time (p < 0.05), the 3 barrier types and the control sites did not differ in numbers or species of colonizing bacteria detected per time point. these results suggest that under these experimental conditions the barrier materials tested do not differ in bacteria adherence or antimicrobial properties.
TIHT== 
ABHT== 
